hey folks it is September 18th and right
here for the ipfs local offline
collaboration call and we're really
excited we have a chat with Adam of
natives in tech today to learn more
about what's going on in the Native
communities in the US and and special
needs there but first I wanted to just
add a new to our call it's awesome to
have him here so we can just do a quick
round of intros if everybody wants to
just tell us a little bit about what
you're doing in the offline first space
or what you're excited about there um so
I'm Terry I am currently the leader of
this fine group I also run an event
called offline camp for folks interested
in offline first whether or not that's
related to be web here we talk about the
crossover but there it's a little more
broad um and yeah I work for I work at
protocol labs and they work primarily on
something called proto school which
offers decentralized web protocol
tutorials so that's me Domon if you want
to go next yeah sure so my name's
Dominic and I mostly contribute to Co
ipfs I come to these calls because I'm
really interested to see what people
work on and hearing the problems that
they might be having with it as well
it's it's always fun to hear the
stumbling blocks and then hopefully fix
them later
but for when things do go well I like to
broadcast that message as well carry it
forward and say have you heard about
this cool thing so that's me yeah
awesome
Yanis yeah hello I'm Janice I am Faisal
- research advisor - I do local maps
doing - all things around idea fast if
it could be content with ADHD things
related to those areas
yeah I'm also a lecturer at UCL where
we've been doing mobile communications
for quite some time so all that sort of
area is very familiar and happy to see
any progress made in terms of protocols
applications or what people need
actually yeah very cool
Michelle you might take a quick second
to chef hi everybody my name is Michelle
I my handles often MHz megahertz in
different things I work on the ipfs
project I do product management user
experience design specifically and very
broadly around decentralized data
stewardship how to help people Stewart
and manage their own information and
data and the way that they find most
appropriate and culturally supportive
alright next drain
yeah sorry I joined late I work at a
company that is work we're doing land
administration in Africa and trying to
find ways to keep resilient Hardware up
resilient software app so that's my
professional interest and personally
just interested in everything
decentralized so loving learning about
this stuff cool and they saved today's
special guests for last so Adam we can
let you both introduce yourself and oh
no actually I'm going to give my spiel
first and then I'm gonna let you
introduce yourself and your yo um so
most of you have heard this pitch before
but offline camp which I run it's taking
place we're only like a week and a half
out now joy will be there all the cool
kids are coming and we had to reschedule
it because of old fire as far as we know
all the fires are out in the local area
so we'll be in Oregon September 27th to
30th and we do still have some tickets
available including sponsorship
scholarships so if you are interested in
coming or if you know someone who is you
know close enough to travel last minute
and might be interested in joining us
it's it's a little bit of a similar vibe
to this where we spend a lot of time
like in a group discussing interesting
issues around offline first some of the
people are approaching from the web some
of them aren't but it's all discussions
based very casual community focused my
favorite event so I will pop a link to
that both in the chat and in the notes
here if anyone's interested but please
help spread the word see if there's
anyone you know who the interested in
joining us I'm just taking a quick look
at the agenda I don't see anything else
here yet besides Adams presentation so
let me turn it over to Adam um I'm super
excited and you can just hit the share
button if you want to Adam to show us
any slides or anything yeah I will yeah
I guess I'll do that first
let's see share
so you can see
so many things going on yeah and if I
can you see the presentation mode now
yeah yeah okay cool okay yeah my name is
Adam Rock little I'm a citizen of the
Muscogee Creek Nation I so my father is
Muscogee Creek and UT and my mother is
English Canadian so I have three
citizenships you know just in case
anything happens uh-huh
also I am the founder of natives in tech
it is a coalition of native and
non-native developers to help basically
promote developers that are native
they're already working in the software
development space if I can go to the
next slide here but yeah essentially we
want to promote as well as a certain
native identity on the web and we do
that by lifting up developers whether
that's kind of like through our blogs
and through our conference that we're
going to be having November 9th we're
going to have a fully remote online
conference that's we have eight speakers
in the lineup and they're going to be
talking about they'll work so we work
also with non-native developers like
I've already said a good example that is
the developer who created native - land
CA which is basically an application
that shows the like indigenous
territories within each of within like
the United States and then also working
on territories like in Australia as well
so he's not native but we want to kind
of bring together people that are native
that are either working in in
development or people that are trying to
help and serve Native communities so a
big part of our F
and the work that we want to do is
building like open source tools open
source software that supports healthy
online Native communities so we do have
a github organization where I've created
like a few different projects we have
our website repo on the github
organization we have this other project
that I'm working on which is a basic
search
Muskogee language search app that's also
listed as under our github organization
and we're trying to pull in more
developers that are working on
applications related to you know
anything that they're working on related
to helping to sort of Native communities
so that's kind of the the gist of it we
are a 501 C 3 non-profit we got our
status like I think last month so we're
currently you know progressing and
building as an organization it
originally started as just a slack group
or I was just trying to connect with
other native people that were in
software development and we have a
pretty strong handful of people right
now that are in that are pretty active
in the slack group and trying to like
move that forward by you know having an
organization may be weak it can get some
grants to also support other initiatives
as well
any questions
I'm not I know it and I'm kind of I
might be coming from a perspective
that's maybe not well understood so if
there are any questions like any types
of questions please feel free to ask
because I want to kind of be a liaison I
guess for my community and as much as I
can be for for other communities with
similar experiences whoops
one thing I would like to hear probably
you don't you talk about it but just in
case not you know the challenges you're
facing or you're trying to address
through these organization yeah yeah so
we will that will I will adjust that and
let's see what my next okay so I will
get to that I think in the in a
subsequent slide but I will talk about I
think the goals of the goals of the
names in tech and then I can talk about
some of the issues that the community
that my community I can say my community
is facing specifically and how that
might be similar to what other
communities are facing so I think some
of the goals like I said we're building
trying to build open-source tools for
Native communities and I think the from
my perspective and I think others might
have in in the organization probably
have other perspectives on this but I
think you might be wondering for you
know kind of why we want to build these
obviously if we want them to connect to
resources that are online that can help
improve their their lives but I think
also from a cultural perspective we have
a lot of people that have smartphones
that have access to applications that
those applications are probably in for
talking about like Facebook and Google
and some of the larger applications you
know there in most cases they probably
have localization built in you know and
that's serving you know broader
communities societies you know political
states that exist
within the world but those things don't
actually trickle down necessarily to
indigenous communities and so in that
sense we're not able to necessarily like
assert our identity online and to also
find resources and work with
applications that align with our
identity whether it's language or
cultural knowledge or cultural
constructs and concepts so from my
perspective that's kind of like the one
of the main reasons for wanting to
promote building applications I serve
Native communities so that you know when
someone goes online they can consume
content that is you know in their
language or using constructs that they
understand because otherwise if they're
using things like face broken and other
kinds of resources you know they're
they're consuming you know other modes
of thought other modes of language and
communication and so that then becomes a
way in which they identify and that
changes you know the way that they they
can see themselves so I think it's very
important that we do construct these
applications so that we can assert our
identity we can among amongst our
community members and we can have
stronger presence within the community
and help shape and promote and further
you know our cultural knowledge so
that's kind of like the perspective that
I'm coming from so just to kind of give
some context on that so specifically for
myself I have looked into ipfs I've used
it locally on my computer I've looked
into PW A's which are progressive web
applications
I looked into offline first and there
are a lot of cases where mobile
applications do have offline first
capabilities built-in which is nice I
just heard about mesh networking
literally like two days ago someone was
mentioning it and I don't know much
about it now but it seems like it could
be a solution
or helping other people to have a
network connection to like peer-to-peer
sharing I've looked into blockchain in
the sense of like decentralized you know
web application size frameworks that can
help with this as well where you don't
have all the information on like one
server but on several you know hundreds
of peers and also just like peer-to-peer
networks which I suppose ipfs is a part
of is what is blockchain and things of
that nature so I think there are things
that there are many things that I want
to work on this is one of those and you
know things that I know that I can do at
least with for example the natives and
Ted website is I can make it a
progressive web app by caching that HTML
content and having it served by a web
worker for example well there are things
that that we can do right now which I
haven't spent too much time on because
I'm doing several different things but I
think it helps also to be aware of like
just different techniques and resources
and tutorials that you can learn from to
help implement these kinds of things so
and to enter them in turn kind of make
it like the de-facto way in which you
make applications I think that's where
we kind of want to go at least where I
want to take the applications that I'm
working on we're offline first and you
know whatever the the methodology
becomes a de-facto way in which I'm able
to build these apps in order to serve
communities that are not well connected
so that's kind of like the goals
[Music]
what I'm trying to achieve there's no
quest
I'll move on to the next slide I have
youth so maybe a question for later but
there are community-based ISPs and
things like that is that a new related
to your doing or have you collaborated
or reached out to them any way we lost
you Adam were missing your video and
audio at the moment you still hearing us
on them mm-hmm
we need an offline first collaboration
mode here we just do it a little
advertisement right the internet that
might work so this is when it's exciting
that the presenter it's not the one also
recording but saying that I will now
drop a guess that's how my life works
it's building the Excite pub and if
[Music]
jeopardy theme song anyone sorry
jeopardy theme the hold music do I do
you have a secret extra guest for our
call that we don't know about choosing
not to introduce themselves because that
could be remedied during this pause this
is Trent
Larson oh okay working at this side here
but also very interested in this topic
so awesome see you
there we go
Cranham sorry bud
no worries you really hated yarns this
question it couldn't handle flak and
zoom and I think I've never seen that
hello
okay oh I missed a question I think or
did anything right say I was just saying
that there are some initiatives to build
community based ISPs so are these have
you consider using technologies if
interest to provide connectivity I mean
even low rate or there are not a few
initiatives
yeah there there are like I know a few
communities that are I think what you're
talking about up are you referencing
like communities creating like the
networking like the fibre broadband
connectivity for different communities
[Music]
there are several different types I
think some of them it's just user in
terms of antennas approached by users
and therefore they can connect over
wireless media to you know whole village
or whatever but there also are those
that they're actually building
infrastructure and getting support from
local councils to build infrastructure
and connect people such as yeah I think
I just know about I guess I guess I've
just know one community that is building
actual like the fibre network like
within their community in order to
connect them to
the Internet so we will in the
presentation kind of discuss maybe some
of the barriers to that in the sense of
you know the funds that are available
and having access to resources having
access to like grant funding Michelle I
saw you had your hand up do you edit or
something quickly before me oh I was
just gonna say I think Adam will
probably cover it later but yet I think
the community base ISP thing Adam I know
you linked to the recent NPR article
about the Havasupai Tribal Council and
the work they've been doing I think that
would fall under that category so you
probably are getting there later in your
presentation so I will leave it to you
[Laughter]
alright we can see your speed again now
Adam awesome okay please don't shut off
okay so I I was trying to get some
general information NPR has like some
articles on this and they have like a
few different articles related to
connectivity so NPR is a good resource
to find some information on this but
back in 2018 there was an article that
was on NPR and this was related to us
since they're saying that 53% of native
peoples are connected to the Internet
which is they said the lowest for any
racial group I guess is how they
categorized it in the United States and
that probably to kind of give that some
more context I mean that's probably a
very broad spectrum we do have
reservations that are very rural and and
isolated but we also have reservations
that are you know literally in the city
so it's it's hard to compare and my
advice is when working with the
community you know just try to figure
out and understand kind of you know
we're you know understand like what kind
of issues they're facing because you
can't just you know apply
you know certain solutions that you know
don't make sense in that in certain
cases so so if we're going to like talk
and just to kind of you know give an
example like there's the city of Gallup
is where the Navajo Reservation is and
you know it is very rural that it is you
could say like a larger town ish type of
size but they probably have like low
connectivity whereas like a resurrected
reservation which is where the Seminoles
are in Hollywood Florida like they're
right in like a big city so their
connectivity is gonna be very high
whereas the other ones might be very low
and again you know every every
reservation is different so just you
know if you are working with tribal
communities you know try to you know
look at those issues and see you know
where the actual concerns are and where
things can be worked on but there are
you know just other you know reasons
that probably that are maybe obvious for
some people but you know there's in in
the world areas where was it where some
reservations are there is like little or
no you know broadband service and that's
also related to cell phone connectivity
as well so not only do they you know not
have access to internet but the phone
service might be really low so they're
not getting connectivity that way either
and there's also issues with how these
grants are being awarded so NPR I think
did some research or a nonprofit
organization did research and found that
you know less than 1% of government
grants are being awarded to native
nations to actually implement you know
these actual things that we're talking
about like you know creating the
networking in the infrastructure and
other things so even though there are
funds that are available either they're
not being awarded
in terms of I think the tribes may not
necessarily know they might not have the
technical grant skillset to apply or or
to you know understand the technical
details of setting up that kind of
infrastructure so there's there's also
maybe like a skills gap between the work
you know that needs to be done and the
people that live within those
communities that want to actually you
know get those grants so so these are
kind of some of the reasons you know why
there's low connectivity in these areas
and specifically in my community that
[Music]
I'm assuming everyone else know that
reference also we need like a good
activity for these little breaks show me
do you mmm-hmm charades you have to do
it they're very
brakes for this particular meeting as
I'm sure you all yeah I'm yeah they are
this internet slowly here we go
restarting I'd like to talk about
sometimes doesn't have to be now
remain at the time too but I've recently
been interested in learning about how
people deal with schema changes in a
distributed type of environment so here
offline first and you can expect that
some of your peers in an application are
slowly being updated over the course of
weeks or months or years how do you deal
with older application versions wanting
to communicate with newer versions and
so forth one good topic is anna-marie
system when you mister area Oh Adam and
a new person wait
yes who's deaf I think either way
alright Adam take away okay
get back to sharing okay
we're talking about points about
connectivity I don't know if there are
any questions related to that if not I
will go to the next point so I have my
charger plugged in so hopefully we can
continue so I think another element
about this which i think is important to
talk about is you have their
connectivity issue you have you know
issues of you know cell phone you know
low you know the amount of access or
data that they can get through cell
phone service but I think there's also
points related to the culture so Native
communities are going to be very close
or you know kids are going to be raised
by not just their parents but their
grandparents aunts and uncles because
you might just say well you know they
don't have access to this information
you know they could technically you know
move somewhere closer where they do have
connection but it's not such an easy you
know thing to do you know when when
you're part of a close connected network
so from from my perspective I realized
that this could be an opportunity where
if students if if people that were
living in remote communities that were
you know living with their family if
they could just have internet access if
they just had that by itself then they
could you know through resources on the
web be able to learn you know web
development then through that they could
you know potentially start working
remotely for companies or start building
things themselves that they'd like to
and through that then they could be you
know you know bring you know wealth into
their community and to their family
being able to help those around them and
so I really see like Internet
connectivity as a major barrier to
achieve
but because of the close-knit you know
nature of families and the clans and the
communities it's a perfect opportunity
if once they're able to get connectivity
to then be able to you know transform
their education transform you know
they're they're living through you know
what they learn online and the
opportunities that they can get online
but you know we get into the cyclical
pattern where you know they okay so they
don't have internet connectivity and so
they don't have the resources and so
without the resources whether that's you
you know financially do then be able to
build that infrastructure you know again
they cannot get that connectivity you
know to be able to get that information
so so I think in general though
achieving this what I think you know be
really incredible just because you know
it would give them the opportunity to
continue to you know be close to their
family but have the opportunity to learn
and grow and to be able to have a good
way of living or a good salary in order
to whether for themselves or to help
their community help their family things
of that nature so those are just some of
the points about the culture that I
wanted to bring up as well something I
don't know Adam if this is something
that comes up in your community but a
certain amount of separation or
segregation also can be an advantage in
evolving different approaches to things
so well-well connectivity is a problem
in some ways it could also mean that
unique solutions are only possible in
that environment you know like whether
it's you know I internet identity that
carries with you in a way that
communities with you I don't know I
don't know how that would work but I
know like some other communities like
the maker community if you're familiar
with maker spaces and so forth
they're very very cash-strapped
and so a lot of their solutions end up
being really brilliant cheap solutions
to things that a very well a well-paid
company for example or people in an in
an academic environment would never
think of because they just they don't
have the same constraints mm-hmm mmhmm
yeah and I think I think yeah I think
that's a really good point and I think
introducing these ideas to the community
can I think start to have those
conversations I think me taking the time
to spend time in those communities can
kind of also promote these conversations
but yeah I think providing at least you
know some resources to them and to then
allow them to innovate like what you're
saying I think is yeah another way in
which to to spur these actions I want to
jump in along those lines
besides the maybe innovation that could
come about we're seeing how outside in
the US there's a lot of regulatory
uncertainty that come with our new
technologies that make it hard for
beginners to innovate whereas in these
areas like we're seeing in Africa those
could be more ripe for actually creating
new business ideas that have a little
bit more leeway and freedom to you know
a place in our case crypto currencies
but all kinds of other business ideas
that might not be practical outside the
area mm-hmm
and I've even thought about okay there's
I'm not not sure if you've worked in
this space or not doing but the I know
there was like some service where there
was like SMS text messaging that was
letting community members know like
where there were I think it was related
to hardware as well but just letting
members know like where water was
available and they could like you know
use their cell phone and take an SMS
messaging in order to get that
information but yeah there's yeah a lot
of ideas that I think yeah we're not
even thinking of because you know we're
not in that space so it's so interesting
how we're completely like oblivious to
things that don't fit with our own
experience of our in my case very first
world and privileged day-to-day but I
love we hear a lot from you know folks
like doing who are involved in projects
in Africa or occasionally someone who is
actually from from another community
that has those constraints that's really
cool I just wanted to mention that there
are a number of articles on the offline
camp medium publication but touch on
some of those kinds of use cases like
Sue's aster recovery with mesh networks
or those kinds of things so if you're
looking for some suggestions for like or
constrained environments you might find
a few starting points there Oh pop the
link in the notes so I'll let you get
back to another thank you thank you
[Music]
about observation I don't know if you
guys talked about an emergency cases for
example something like if any natural
disaster or something like that could
all the connections across some area may
be this kind of technology can help to
communicate between persons in an
affected area for any reason it's all
it's mine my comment yeah yeah
definitely yeah I mean I think there are
cases where like at least here in
Oklahoma we have tornadoes so like and
they're pretty they can be pretty
prevalent south of for I'm living but
also in kind of this general area
and they might not necessarily have
access to yeah that information in
regards to you know natural disasters
but even if they did you know what if
the natural disaster knocks out a power
line or knocks out a service you know
then you know would there be something
there in in that downtime in the
intermediate time that could still you
know help them to communicate with one
another so yeah and so yeah I think
there's definitely work where that can
be done
so I'll go to the next slide these are
just like a few of the I think things
that kind of come to mind as well when
we talk about having like an online
I guess persona or identity and you know
as it pertains to indigenous peoples you
know they can be very private about
information like especially if it's
cultural or ceremonial in nature but at
the same time if they don't put in like
certain safeguards in in relation to
their online identity then you know that
information could potentially leak out
you know to people that they don't want
knowing it and so so it's not it's it's
a there's you know a general knowledge
gap there's you know maybe a gap in
terms of connectivity but there's also
just to gap in terms of you know what it
means to be I guess an online citizen so
if there is information that they're
sending to other people you know if it's
through facebook Messenger you know that
information there's probably being
probably being recorded and downloaded
and it may not be information that they
want shared or that they want anyone to
really know because it's you know very
private or ceremonial or spiritual in
nature so you know it should be
important too if they are able to
connect to a web interface and they are
engaging with web applications then we
also need to inform these community
members about you know using two-factor
authentication probably you know using
something that helps make their maybe a
password manager that makes it easy to
create passwords to know the differences
between using firefox and chrome or
between using DuckDuckGo and google
search in terms of searching for
information you know social media and
email you know if they use Gmail for
example maybe that information is you
know being collected up so again you
know these are things that they probably
you know they don't really like you know
explicit
when you sign up for service or maybe
they are in the sense that if you're
really into the fine details and you
want to read like the end user
you know agreement on things but I think
for most users are not really going to
be educated in this area and they may be
sharing information that you know
shouldn't be known by anyone outside of
the community you know whether it's you
know on a hard drive or not and it's not
really being looked into it all but you
know maybe they just don't want it to be
out there and then also from my
perspective I think there is a lot of
opportunity I think for for e-commerce
because when working with indigenous
communities you know there is a
tradition of regalia or beyond that just
aren't you know there's a lot of
artisans within the community and
because their role you know they
couldn't they could take advantage of
you know ecommerce and in ways that can
you know help their way of life and so
but at the same time they have to also
get up to speed you know on what
ecommerce is and and using a platform
and getting familiar with the platform
and how they specifically do e-commerce
so currently I see a lot of community
members that post on Twitter you know
they'll say hey you know I made some
earrings or you know hey I made this
you know you know let me know you know
who wants them and so I think that there
is not not a big gap but I think a small
gap in terms of for those that are on
Twitter there might be a small gap in
terms of e-commerce and knowing like
certain platforms to use but they to
also come with their own cost I think I
don't know if there's some that have no
overhead and maybe some that have you
know a subscription model but either way
you know I think that there are errors
in which artisans within these
communities can also plug into and take
advantage of you know
that the commerce that's happening you
know on the web today any questions on
that okay so yeah I just my presentation
is coming to a close I just wanted to
share our social media so like I was
saying before we have a github account
we have a Twitter or Twitter account we
have a slack group and you can this the
natives in tech dot Heroku app comm is
the invite yeah the in the site
application and syn allows you to be
invited into the slack group we have a
forum which is a our discourse instance
and we have a LinkedIn so this is just
some of the social media platforms that
we're on in order to get a you know get
the word out about our work and at the
end here we have like some information
related to resources so these are kind
of some of the articles that I read and
to get like see what other communities
are going through outside of the
Muscogee Creek Nation here in Oklahoma
and Arizona State University put
together some nice information related
to the digital divide so hopefully these
are all resources that you all can can
use to educate yourselves on some of the
issues that sometimes are facing that
are more isolated and so yeah I guess
that kind of concludes my presentation
sorry for dropping in and out here and
there but thank you now where you just
emphasizing who need for stuff that
works offline so we're cool with it
you're going to stop sharing we have
about 10 minutes left if people have
questions I have a couple of questions
but don't know feel free to ignore or
move on to whatever you like one so we
we work we work with land administration
in Zambia and in Zambia a lot of the
native indigenous lands haven't
necessarily been incorporated with the
government exam BIA and so there's some
ambiguities there's also some other
processes that works being worked on to
try to allow local ownership or
illustration of the plan so basically
communal lenin's and I imagine some of
those things are very similar but are
you I guess I'm just curious if you're
if there's any overlap and some of the
things we're doing there with what some
of the problems that exist in in the
Americas or if it's kind of
well-established I guess it's been we've
been colonists my ancestors have been
here for a long time and you've been
here longer so may be well established I
don't know how was that how was that
with me well yeah I mean I think there's
there's definitely communities that are
role in Oklahoma that are just being
served by the Muscogee Creek Nation or
by tribal nations as opposed to this
state
and kind of like what you're I think
what you're getting at so I think the
Muscogee Creek Nation kind of does put
the responsibility on their shoulders to
whatever if I think you might be like
paving roads it might be like servicing
you know providing medical assistance to
people out in rural areas and so yeah I
think I think in our situations we might
be in a similar situation in the sense
that you know the the the local I guess
tried to are the ones taking the
initiative on some of those things so
yeah I mean I think that in that sense
it kind of there is opportunity to then
work specifically with you know those
tribal with the with the tribal nations
here in terms of you know establishing
what you might be internet connectivity
you might be cell phone service you know
whatever my feet and not having its
airily to go through maybe a much larger
bureaucracy like with the students to to
get some of these questions answered or
refer to screen like what opportunities
there are I think we're gonna have more
talk about this with you specifically
later because we've talked about designs
of the administration system it's
basically recording ownership is and
your idea of ownership is different in
areas and there's different ownership
and so you know I think it'll be
interesting to hear later and there's
conversation how we could either deploy
something that would be useful in that
context or something that there's an
overlap between though at that ownership
and overall state ownership which
surrounds it and just determining what
gets to be feared maybe it's just a
little bit and and that would be an very
interesting design for us so yeah
another question as well oh I had one
other yeah so I was curious about
something it seems like you've been
quite successful personally in in
bridging that a lot of these gaps that
you're talking about I'm curious
have there been some things that you've
seen that are replicable in your story
that could be applied to some of the
some of the native areas or communities
that you're seeing you know so there's
definitely more work to be done
I've kind of just I just moved out here
like a month ago a couple months ago and
so I'm kind of now just having
conversations with the Muscogee Creek
Nation as well as there's a coding
bootcamp that's close to here call it
coding dojo so I'm just now like trying
to start conversations and to like let
them know that this is an opportunity
for them to that I think aligns with a
lot of people's way of life in terms of
you know within their community and
wanting to because look for anyone
that's gotten into development it's not
easy
it can be very hate you know difficult
you can want to pull your hair out of
time so you can just want to quit
sometimes and I think what we're trying
to do at least at least right now is to
say okay there are opportunities let us
be a support network for you let us you
know build because we because we have
the network like a hunts lag where
people can communicate and talk to each
other so if you do want to get into
development let us be a networking
support group for you and because you
know we it helps to I think find a
support group of people that you
identify with and you feel more
comfortable around it so at this moment
in time
you know building of that support
network and then hopefully in the near
future we can actually you know work
with people in the community that want
to get into the field and then from
there people that are closer to you know
remote in rural areas that have a
support network that have been
successful then they can start to
replicate that for other people as well
as community so I think that that can
also work for other tribal nations here
so there are other communities for
example the Kiowa that are doing camps
for students in with a small high school
so
I have connected with them I haven't
necessarily gone out and and worked with
them yet but there are other
publications that are interested is
including the Osage as well which are
just looking here so there I think right
now they're trying to build it with one
community and then hopefully you know
that can be replicated out any other
questions I don't know that I answer
your question Yanis about ISPs I think
you had another one but if I did I don't
know obviously there's there are travel
expenses involved but I don't know if
you might know some tribal communities
that are closer to the organic area
where there might be someone who'd be
interested in coming to offline camp
with one of the scholarships that we
still have left or even if a couple of
people I'm not sure what would be the
right way to reach those folks I think
so what I could do is if you send that
information I can send it out on in our
slack group and then also I'll send it
out on Twitter and that hopefully can
reach you know a big audience okay
perfect I'll email you all
you
so this is great Thank You Adam it's
always always neat to hear a new
perspective on particularly with like
communities that were that not all of us
have the exposure to Sam yeah I'll just
let's plug the thing kid hub group again
like if you want to contribute and you
know help us on github you know send
some commits our way that'd be great if
if you have like also just I guess send
me information I think you have my email
of Terry
so anyone has like more resources that
you just brought up protocol labs
I think there's tutorial for information
which I didn't know about before so yeah
like we take a look at that but yeah if
if anyone wants to like you know
collaborate on something yeah feel free
to you know speak with me and we figure
out what we can do I wanted to go to the
offline conference it's kind of not the
best time with work home but yeah I
would like to set out date you know
further in the future and so that I can
attend yeah we certainly do our best
after the event to kind of summarize
discussions that happen and share them
in writing so that medium publication is
a great place to catch up on some of the
interesting stuff that's come out of
past discussions um oh I was just gonna
say we usually host these on the third
Wednesday of the month which would be
October 16th for the next one and we
don't have a specific topic or presenter
yet for that one so people can be
thinking about whether there's something
they'd like to share we will have had
offline camp in between so it might be
that we'd have some folks from off I
can't sharing some of the interesting
discussions from there or we could look
at a specific presenter but um I suspect
we might have a bigger crowd than usual
a trapline camp so we'll see how it goes
but if anyone is not doing this already
the wreaths oh oh I know what else I was
in
suggest Adam opened an issue in the in
our repo about this this particular use
case so that might also be a good place
for people to have some discussion and
reach out him there yeah but if you
follow the repo I'll find the link in
here here somewhere because this is
where I announced the call dates and if
you're I can like tag you in the issue
so that you actually get an email to
remind you that the calls exist but
great to see everybody today and I'll
send out a link to the video of this in
our recap so feel free to share with
anyone or Adam if you want to share the
video more broadly as a place to share
your presentation please feel free to do
that so thank you I'll be on YouTube
thanks for organizing all right thanks
to see everyone nice to see you David or
a bunch that we don't get to see you at
Kim see you later